% Twenty Sided Tale
% Shamus Young; Heather Young

This is a running narrative of our Dungeons & Dragons campaign. This
is a custom campaign written by me, using the 3.5 edition rules. Our
group meets at my house Sunday evenings and usually plays for about 5
hours. I run the session while my wife transcribes events as they
unfold. After the session I go over our notes (both her live notes and
my pre-game notes) and turn them into the story you read here.

This means that what you read is a collaboration between myself and
six other people. I design the plot and enforce the rules, but the
five players decide how the heroes deal with (or avoid) the challenges
they encounter. Finally, the chaos is turned into what is hopefully an
interesting narrative.

This is our third campaign together. The other two campaigns are not
on-line, although if there is some demand I may post them. All of the
characters are currently level 5 at the start of this campaign. The
current active players are Skeeve the Wizard, Eomer the Rogue, Thordek
the Fighter, Thu'fir the Blade Lord, and Enoch the Cleric.

> In most entries, the main text is the "story" that Heather recorded,
> and boxed off text like this is notes from me about out-of-game
> info. For example, if Bob the Barbarian stays at the Inn while
> everyone else explores the tomb, I might drop in a comment to
> explain that the guy who plays Bob was sick that week. I might also
> use this space to explain moments when we diverge from the rules in
> some big way, or to fill in some backstory.

The campaigns I run are usually a bit more low-key and realistic than
your average D&D story. So, likely as not you'll see Orcs, Goblins,
and Zombies, but I doubt we'll have stuff like gelatenous cubes,
mimics, or dimensional grabbers. Towns are filled with commoners, not
extraplaner travelers. You won't see any talking swords in my world,
and dragons are very, very rare. True magic users are about as rare as
celebreties or pro atheletes in our world. Commoners are aware of
magic and deal with it from time to time, but they don't see it every
day. This is just a style thing. I find the world easier to visualize
if it looks a bit more like our world. I have a hard time imagining
how warfare and commerce would work if a good portion of the populace
could teleport or fly around on pet hippographs. This rule change is
the sort of thing I'm talking about.

I'm writing this campaign because I'd like to see other people doing
this sort of thing. Perhaps it will catch on? I'd love to read the
campaigns other people come up with. If you blog a campaign like this,
please email me and let me know. I'd love to read what you have, and
I'd be glad to add you to the links.

## Mar Tesaro

Mar Tesoro is the setting of our current campaign. It is a large
island (It would take a little better than a week to walk from the
north shore to the south) that is inhabited by two seperate groups:
The Northerners (also called "Lormanites"), and the Alidians.

![](images/map_mar_tesaro.gif)

On the south side of the island is a mountain called "Mount Khelberg".
It is apparently a very large and valuable mountain that contains a
lot of precious metals and gems. From what the party has gathered, the
war seems to be over who should control the mountain.

## Introduction

The characters are in the town of Golgotha. It is late in the month of
Suncrest (July). They just helped the city fend off an army of undead,
saved everyone, and became the big heroes, thus ending the last
campaign. The battle ended three days ago and they have been resting
since then. The battle destroyed and burned down a good bit of the
town, which is now being rebuilt.

The current party is Skeeve the Wizard, Eomer the Rogue, Thordek the
Fighter, and Enoch the Cleric. Lucian the ranger is still part of the
group, but that character is being retired (replaced) with another one
in the first session.

## Endo

![](images/pc_endo.jpg)

| Name: Endo
| Race: Human
| Class: Monk
| Played By: Shamus (Endo is an NPC when I'm the DM)

Endo is a follower of the Ki-Tan fighting style. He lived in Highstone
Monastery, a large stone structure overlooking the town of Bridgehold
in Grey Moor. The town and the monastery formed a sort of symbiotic
relationship. The Monks guarded the town (so traditional town guards
were not needed) while the townies provided food and clothing for the
monks.

Over a few generations various misunderstandings led to quite a bit of
animosity between the two, and eventually they came to resent each
other. The story is too long to relate here, but the short of it is
that at the time of our story it was the custom for select monks to
become "guardians" of the town. As part of their guardianship, they
take a vow of silence and also a vow never to strike (or even
threaten) a resident of the town. After seven years, their
guardianship would end (along with their vows of silence and pacifisim
toward the members of the town) and it was more or less expected that
they would leave the monastery to seek their fortune elsewhere, or
stay and become teachers.

Young men of the city would often take advantage of this vow and taunt
or torment the very guardians that kept them safe from external
threats. (A bit like the way people picked on the Amish in "Witness")
Different monks came up with various ways of dealing with this. One
simply ran when accosted by surly young men in town. Another avoided
coming into town during the day, and instead ran his errands at night.
He would sneak into shops, procure what he needed, and leave the money
on the counter.

Endo had a different way of dealing with it. He stood there and took
it. He would stand still and endure their slaps, insults and spit
until they grew bored and left. Eventually the bullies (there were two
young men who did this) grew angry that they couldn't daunt the monk.
They became more abusive, eventually punching and kicking Endo in an
attempt to get SOME response out of him. Endo never made any attempt
to resist them. They would pummel him until they were exhausted. For
years Endo was covered in cuts and bruises.

As his guardianship drew to a close, the player characters came into
town on their quest. Enoch the cleric encountered Endo on the road and
offered him healing, which Endo silently refused.

There was a counsil at the monastery about the problems that players
faced, and the curse on the land. During the counsil, Endo was
released from his seven-year vow and a new guardian was sworn in. Endo
spoke for the first time in seven years (his voice is very raspy) to
thank his teacher, and then left without hearing the rest of the
proceedings. The meeting was long (lots of talk between the players
and the leaders of the city / monastery) and a lot of the plot was
filled in. Towards the end of the meeting, Endo came in and sat down
without saying a word.

As everyone rose to leave, a couple of townies barged in, breathless,
shouting that Endo had just walked into town and murdered two men.

This was Endo's solution to the bullies in town. He fulfilled his
oath, and the moment it was over he went and snapped the neck and back
of his tormentors. He did NOT do this out of revenge, but out of a
desire to end the violence against guardians. From now on if someone
abused a guardian, he need only stand still and accept it. His passive
attitude would carry a very real implied threat: In seven years I will
kill you.

From that point on, the abuse of guardians ended forever.

In the meantime, there were a lot of sore feelings in town about what
Endo had done. It was decided that he should leave town and travel
with the party as a guide through the mountains.

> Just for the record, I had no idea "Endo" was slang for weed. I
> named this character after a minor henchmen in the original Lethal
> Weapon movie. I thought the reference was obscure enough that I
> could get away with it. Once I introduced him, the players had a
> laugh at my expense and explained what "Endo" means. They made jokes
> about his friends "Hawiaian Gold" and "Ganji". Sigh.
>
> Just don't get the impression this guy is some sort of stoner.
>
> As a stoic monk Endo almost never speaks unless he has something
> important to say, which is perfect for an NPC. I use him to feed the
> players info if they forget something critical, or as a way to give
> some backstory without introducing "random nameless peasent #5â€³ to
> do the talking for me.


## Eomer

![](images/pc_eomer.jpg)

| Name: Eomer
| Race: Human
| Class: Rogue
| Played By: Pat

Eomier Abrin DeCauste was born to a soldier, Claudius. While he was
not afforded luxury, he was not deprived either. By means of his
father he was taught at the only established school on the island,
which in those times was almost always a church, and this school was
no different.

He was often told not only by his father, but at the school, of the
crusades of Ubrin Lorich. Three generations had passed since Ubrin and
his companions freed the isle of Grey Moor from its natural occupants;
the orcs. These stories were grand, elaborate and verbose. I will not
burden your ear with the stories in full Elvish song, but know that to
the children of Greymoor these songs were as intoxicating as fine
wine. Idolization of Ubrin and his friends was assured.

"Ubrin had, with the aid of his friends, hunted down and killed every
tribe of orc on the island. Afterwards he declared Grey Moor a free
island, that no man should ever rule it. None but those who sought to
take from others should be turned away from its shores. Like everyone
else, Eomier was astounded that one could be so selfless as to give up
an entire island after conquering it almost single handedly. While
many stories circulated as to why Ubrin had such an acute distaste for
monarchies or established governments, none were ever proven, and no
one really thought it that important.

After Ubrin parted ways with his companions, he constructed the office
of the protector of Grey Moor. He did little but watch the city of
Bayhaven grow around him till his death, save slaying the occasional
band of goblins. He sired and raised a son, Aaron, and instructed him
in the way of the sword and the way of the pen. After his death Aaron
took over stewardship of the island, keeping to his fathers will that
no man should have dominion over another. Aaron lived many years and
saw Bayhaven grow from fledgling town to a city that drew trade ships.
It was during this time that so many races came to settle in Grey
Moor. Despite the usual tensions that exist whenever dwarf, human and
Halfling live in such close proximity, Greymoor and its (lack of)
politics kept these disagreements to a minimum.

It is during Aaron's tenure that the first mention of the Monks of the
Highstone Monastery is made, a passive (but lethal) order of Monks
that had taken stewardship of the local town of Bridgehold. It's not
clear if the town or monastery came first, but since the monks had a
penchant for vows of silence, no one really knows for sure.

No one knows how long the dwarves had been on the island, but it was
also around this time that their presence was discovered.
All-the-while this seemingly uninhabited island was home to a clan of
Dwarven stone masters. Like most dwarves they were very content to
live within their mountain, unburdened with anything outside of it.
Little was heard from the dwarves, but Aaron did arrange a reasonable
trade of goods and foods (mostly ale and textiles) from off-island for
whatever valuables the dwarves were willing to part with.

Aaron knew that once word of trade with Dwarven miners spread that the
trade ships would be more eager to stop at this once small port.
Peoples from all over Mar Talos soon came to find their fortunes in
the mountains that cut the island in half, find adventure in the
north, to free themselves from oppression or to simply claim a strip
of land and make a simple living.

During his time as steward Aaron saw Grey Moor's population grow from
a few hundred to almost ten thousand, with roughly 4 thousand in
Bayhaven alone. This did, however, cost him quite dearly. He invested
much of his families' fortune out of a sense of obligation to his
charge as Protector. Near the end of his wildly successful and
peaceful tenure, he made one error that would eventually engulf the
island in civil war: He levied a tax on ships stopping in port, simply
for upkeep of the docks themselves. While this is customary in all
other ports, this was the first time that such a thing had been done
on Greymoor. Without knowledge or intent, Aaron created a government.
The office of the protector passed to his son, Reginald."

During childhood the fact did not escape Eomier that while there were
more than a few thousand families in Bayhaven, there were less than a
hundred students. This troubled him greatly, and he sought answers.
The head master (and head priest as it was) Tenril at first seemed
annoyed that a boy would question such things, and took it as an
accusation. He rebuked Eomier, and his father was less than pleased.
For 7 years he kept his silence.

By age 11 he was the top student, and his father had advanced to rank
of Lieutenant and personal advisor to Reginald the Protector. One day,
while walking home from school, as he passed the keep he saw his
father and his men taking a young man, not many years older than
Eomier, up to the keep. He looked like he had been roughed up quite a
bit, and the number of guards escorting him suggested whatever his
offense had been, this was a very dangerous man. Eomier asked his
father what the man had done. The man had been caught stealing, and
his punishment would be imprisonment for 2 years, or banishment to the
north. This was basically a death sentence, since no one had come back
from the north in 20 years. He was told of how there would ALWAYS be
people who will take advantage of others if not kept at bay. And that
is what the office of the protector, and in turn Eomier's father, did.
There were always thieves who would pray on the innocent if not dealt
with, and dealt with harshly. This is what Ubrin did, and what he had
envisioned for Grey Moor. Eomier accepted this.

Days later while again walking home from school Eomier was accosted by
several older boys. He did not recognize them and they were much
bigger than him. He did what most boys would do, he ran. Fleeing
through the streets he turned a corner, ducked into a shop and
vanished from his pursuers. As his breath returned, peering out the
window as his attackers passed by, he was startled from a gruff voice
from behind:

"Get used to it kid..."

He turned around to see a man not as old as his voice would make him
seem. He stood there, frozen, scared and out of breath.

"You don't even know why they're chasing you, do you?"

Eomier shook his head, he had no idea. Eldon informed him that his
father had become quite well known as Reginald's lap dog, making more
than a few enemies. It was the first time he first heard the other
side life on Grey Moor, away from the keep and the school. He heard of
how a few days earlier a man had been imprisoned for trying to sneak a
few things off a ship without paying the tariff first. He had always
paid before; he simply needed to sell the goods first to pay the tax.
Instead he was beaten, jailed, and his goods claimed. The story of an
entire ships crew banished to the North for a mere casket of wine.
Eomier refused to believe it, and left the shop and ran home.

By age 14 he was done with school, and it was time to do what was
expected of him and follow in his fathers footsteps. His first
assignments were simply escorting goods from the port south to the
towns north. He did this often for several months, and it wore on him.
He wished to keep the peace, to defend the people of Grey Moor.

While daydreaming of riding with Ubrin one day, three men jumped from
the bushes along the road and snatched several bags of grain from a
cart right in front of him. Surprised because he wasn't paying
attention, but mostly because these three men hardly looked like the
viscous thieves he was trained to look out for. They were dirty,
ragged, and very obviously starving. They didn't look anything like
the thieves or evil-doers he had imagined, they were starving
peasants. Two of them weren't even wearing shoes. As he watched them
"flee", still quite surprised at their appearance, he watched as all
three were chased down and cut to pieces by other guards on horseback.
Shocked at what had just happened, he said nothing as the Captain
rebuked him for not paying attention. When he returned home, he asked
his father of what had happened, and of his thoughts. Again his father
to reprimanded him for questioning the way of things, and told him to
be more thoughtful of his duty. Troubled by what had happened, he
sought advice from an unlikely source: The shopkeeper.

Eldon was all too eager to fill his ears with stories such as the one
he had seen. And soon Eomier was starting to question exactly who was
oppressing who? Who was the thief? Was he really defending the people?
He struggled with his own ideals and began to see not just the world
he had been shown, but what was hidden behind strong doors and clean
clothes. He used his fathers influence and status (which was now
Magistrate) to look into some of the accusations levied against the
prisoners of the keep. He was shocked to find out that jails were
full, usually for the smallest of offenses, but almost always having
to do with monies owed to the office of the protector. Crimes against
other citizens were dealt with in the harshest manor possible. There
were no rights, no appeals, only the decree of the Protector.

Secretly he began to funnel info to his new friend, Eldon. In turn he
was taught useful skills, and mostly he felt he was only now really
helping people who needed it.

He was still young however, and was soon caught. After a very heated
argument with his father, he left the Office of the Protector and
found work smuggling goods from the north to escape what was now a
ridiculous tax. With every trip back to Bayhaven, a new wing had been
added to the keep. It resembled a castle more than anything, and the
flags of "The Office of the Protector" flew as a King's would.
Eomier's contempt grew every trip.

## Lucian

![](images/pc_lucian.jpg)

| Name: Lucian
| Race: Elf
| Class: Ranger
| Played By: Eric

Lucian has an interesting backstory about betrayal within his family
which sent him into exile (and thus adventuring) but it hasn't really
been introduced in-game.

This character was retired at the end of our second campaign, and Eric
rolled up a new character.

## Skeeve

![](images/pc_skeeve.jpg)

| Name: Skeeve
| Race: Elf
| Class: Wizard
| Played By: Dan

Skeeve is an unusual Wizard. While everyone else had more or less
serious, Tolkien-esque names, Dan gave his Wizard a more comedic name.
Skeeve is also a rustic "farmboy" among Elves, and self-taught himself
magic instead of being an apprentice or joining a guild.

Dan is also pretty outspoken, impulsive, and foul-mouthed. He tends to
blurt out outragous things, to which I reply, "Did you say that in
character?" He'll often reply, "Um. Sure."

So what we ended up with was a very brash Wizard with a penchant for
shooting off his mouth and dropping the F-bomb.

## Yoeg

![](images/pc_yoeg.jpg)

| Name: Yoeg
| Race: Half-Orc
| Class: Barbarian
| Played By: Joe (Retired)

Yoeg's father Keroning (a full orc, and an outcast among his people)
rescued Yoeg's human mother from bandits (possibly rapists). They
lived in the hills in secret and had a son. Some humans found out
about the grotesque union and attacked the house. They slew his father
and mother, and entered the house to find an empty cradle.

Years later (during our first campaign) a Paladin came to Grey Moor,
looking for the Half-Orc. The paladin was large, well-armed, and had
several stout people in his party. Fearing him, the party fled north.

He finally caught up with the party in the town of stackroot. The
paladin revealed that his father was one of the people who attacked
Yoeg's house and killed his parents. Keroning had killed his father,
and the paladin was here to dispense justice and rid the world of the
Orc's vile offspring. He was here to finish the job his father
started.

He promised an honorable fight: If Yoeg would fight him one-on-one,
none of his friends (the other players) would be harmed. The paladin
produced a massive axe, saying he planned on killing the abomination
(Yoeg) with it's fathers own axe.

The fought, and Yoeg killed the paladin. He then took his father's axe
as his own.

At the end of our first compaign, Yoeg remained in Grey Moor.

## Thordek

![](images/pc_thordek.jpg)

| Name: Thordek Earthguard
| Race: Dwarf
| Class: Fighter
| Played By: Joe

Thordek came from a stout family of miners. He worked as a digger in a
family mine for many decades until he was offered a position as forman
in a distant mine. This was his chance to lead the dig, design the
shafts, and be the first to see the secrets the ground had to offer.
He took the job and travelled a great distance to his new home and dig
site. When he arrived, all were dead. They had been slain weeks
earlier. With no owner and no crew there was no job for him. Thodek
left and began to wander the country, seeking work.

He had a number of adventures before coming to Golgotha in northern
Dunlock.

> Thodek was an NPC in our second campaign. As the campaign drew to a
> close, Joe (the DM) decided he'd rather try a different character,
> as opposed to playing Yoeg again. He wanted to play a Dwarf, so
> using the already-established character Thordek made sense.

## Enoch

![](images/pc_enoch.jpg)

| Name: Enoch
| Race: Human
| Class: Cleric (serves Pelor)
| Played By: Bogan

Bogan wrote a great backstory for this character way back during out
first campaign. Since then I've managed to misplace it. I'll update
this once I find his story. It's somewhere in my DM notes.

Bogan is quiet, and so Enoch ends up being pretty quiet in-game as
well. He's actually one of the most observant characters, and uses his
spells wisely. He's caught me off guard a few times with suddenly
casting a lesser-known (read: non-combat) spell like "zone of truth"
when I wasn't expecting it. As a DM, I always find it rewarding when
players come up with solutions I hadn't thought of.

## The Setting

Before I became DM, the players were in a campaign run by a guy named
Josh, whom I've never met. They parted ways with him and I ended up
running the campaign. Josh was very much a freestyle DM, with no real
shape to the game world. It was just town, woods, town, woods, in some
non-specific country.

When I took over I wanted to keep a bit of continuity, but at the same
time I needed to place them in some sort of structured world. I came
up with the map you see below. I decided that they all came from
"Dunlock", and they were in the coastal town of Djoshport (named after
their hapless former DM). In our first session I stuck them on a boat
for Grey Moor, the site of our first campaign.

![](images/world_map.gif)

Our "world map" consists of the following:

* Dunlock is the main landmass. The players "come from" here. The
  country doesn't really have much in the way of detail, but serves as
  an anchor for the other lands in the game.
* Grey Moor
* Mar Tesaro
* Mar Talos
* The Tunderlands are inhabited, but the players have never been
  there. This land is open for future adventures.

In our first campain the players went to Grey Moor and broke an evil
curse that was killing the crops and draining the land of life, and
then joined in a battle to prevent a single greedy nobleman for
siezing control of the Island. Along the way they teamed up with Eomer
and Endo and attained level 3. The Elves of Mar Talos joined in the
battle to keep the island free. This brought our first campaign to an
end.

At this point one of the players (Joe) became the DM, and I joined the
game as a normal player using Endo. Joe's character stayed on Grey
Moor, and the rest of us sailed to Golgotha in northern Dunlock. The
party battled an army of the undead, saved the land, and made level 5.
I became the DM again, keeping Endo as an NPC that travelled with the
party. The party sailed for Mar Talos, but got shipwrecked on Mar
Tesaro, which our third campaign is now taking place.

## Session 1

### 22nd of Suncrest, 1501dy

The unlikely band of heroes waits impatiently at the inn, for what
they do not know. The town, Golgotha, is swarming with mercenaries but
as heroes the party finds that they do not need to pay for anything.
All they want and more is at their fingertips, yet they itch to be
gone. It has been months since they left Greymoor and some have
unfinished business there awaiting their return.

The inn is nothing more than an abandoned house in view of the docks,
the old inn having been destroyed in the battle three days earlier.
Endo stands in the lobby watching the comings and goings; fighters,
merchants, sailors, thieves, all can be seen walking along the road
near the docks. The docks themselves are a flurry of excitement. A new
ship, rickety and hardly sail worthy, looking to be on its last sails,
is in the dock being stocked full of boxes from the blacksmith shop
down the road.

A young boy runs in the door asking if an Eomer or an Enoch is at the
inn. Endo points toward their rooms. The boy nods and runs off,
disappearing into the depths of the inn.

Moments later the others join Endo in the lobby. Eomer has been given
the following letter:

<div class="document">
Eomer son of Claudius,

We hope you have enjoyed your travels, but the council bids you to
come home and lend aid to our country. We are beset and in need of the
skills of you and your companions. Troubles have come to our land and
we ask that you would remember your obligation to your family and
homeland. Please make haste to the Keep in Bayhaven and we will reveal
what it is you must do.

With Hope,

The Council of Grey Moor
</div>

Enoch also speaks up, saying that he received a letter from Sagemaster:

<div class="document">
To Enoch, Servant of Pelor,

Trusted friend, word may reach your ears of the troubles in Grey Moor.
The Council of Bayhaven has sent word to many allies in search of aid,
and I expect they will contact you as well. I request that you and
your friends come see me in Talosport before visiting the counsil. I
realize this will be an inconvenience to you, and I do not make such a
request lightly. I do promise that what you hear will be to your
advantage. I do not wish to hinder you from acting on events as you
choose, but I would like to advise you before you get involved.

Faithfully,

Sagemaster Teerin Forwinol
</div>

> Grey Moor was the site of their first campaign. They actually set up
> the Council of Grey Moor in the wake of the campaign. Sagemaster
> Teerin is a trusted friend of the PC's and a powerful individual. He
> is the ruler of Mar Talos. (See the map for more details). The party
> is on uneasy terms with the council, but trust Sagemaster a great
> deal.

The party discusses their plans, considering whether to go straight to
Greymoor or to stop at Mar Telos on the way back. Lucian decides to
stay and help the people rebuild their town. Eomer looks sternly at
Lucian and just as sternly says, "Stay away from my girlfriend".

Lucian, known to be a bit of a cad, just grins.

Eomer wanders off to the docks to speak to the boat-masters. After
speaking to several he finds that the only one heading that way is the
Ocean's Majesty, the same decrepit ship Endo had seen being loaded
down with cargo. The captain, Captain Purlof, a rather fat, optimistic
old soul, is on the deck seated upon a large barrel, rocking slowly
back and forth. Behind him stands the XO, First Mate Inorem. He's a
rather sour looking elf, who shows great disdain for everyone,
including the only elf in the party, Skeeve.

Eomer leads the negotiations with the Captain, throughout which Inorem
contends with whatever the Captain says.

Purlof plans to head for Fort Boland on Mar Tesaro, then proceed to
Bayhaven on Grey Moor, and finally to Talosport on Mar Telos. Eomer
asks how much he would make per trip, hoping to be able to pay extra
to get him to go to Mar Telos first. The elf cuts in, refusing to
divert the course, whereas the Captain insists they will gladly divert
for 100 gold.

As for passage on the ship, the captain says he will take 25 gold
each, but will gladly refund it at the end of the journey if they make
themselves useful. Inorem is enraged at this, insisting that they are
still passengers and should have to pay full price, regardless of how
they spend their time. The Captain gladly welcomes each upon their
acceptance of the offer, happily contradicting whatever comment First
Mate Inorem makes regarding their uselessness as crew.

A sailor with an air of authority walks, by giving a tour to the other
passengers. Meanwhile the other sailors are hard at work loading the
ship with more cargo. The party all begins to help with the loading as
Enoch goes below decks to pray for a safe journey. With the weight of
the new cargo, the ship gradually sinks lower and lower into the
water.

As the ship becomes ready to sail, a man comes running towards the
ship, yelling for it to wait, wearing only his underwear, his clothing
and sword held over his head. Behind him runs the half-orc blacksmith,
who's daughter is waving from the inn window, a sheet clutched to her
breast. As the man boards the ship the gang plank is raised leaving
the furious smith standing at the docks glaring.

> This was the introduction of Eric's new character. He and I had
> agreed on this little scene beforehand. What makes it funny was that
> earlier (back at the inn), Eomer had told Lucian, Eric's OLD
> character, to stay away from her.

As soon as all are settled the ship sets sail. Eventually they make
their way to the mess deck. An unshaven sailor wanders over to their
table and joins them. Skeeve greets him as he sits, which is more than
enough to loosen the sailor's tongue. A man who enjoys his own voice,
Nobert introduces himself as a member of the crew and cheerfully goes
on to fill them in on all the ins and outs of the crew, wandering
happily from subject to subject with little prompting from the party.

![The Ocean's Majesty](images/ship1.gif)

As it turns out, Endo was right in assuming that boxes coming from the
blacksmith were likely war supplies. The ship is selling weapons to
the northern states of Mar Tesaro, an island deep in some sort of
civil war.

The conversation then turns to Inorem, whom according to Nobert, the
crew dislikes. His rudeness and distaste for humans are more than
enough to keep him from favor amongst the crew. Inorem used to sail on
a much grander elven ship, but it was sunk in the battle of Bayhaven.
He'd been forced to take this position on a human crew and he resents
it. Half of the cargo hold is his, and he is free to use this ship
until he can make enough to buy his own. He does this by stacking it
to the rafters with weapons for sale at Mar Tesoro.

Nobert then goes on to explain that Beck used to be first mate, losing
the title to Inorem when the Captain offered to help Inorem get funds
for a new ship. The crew however misses Beck as such, liking him as
much as they hate Inorem. The crew also is very fond of the captain,
who they refer to as "Puffins" or "Puff". He runs a loose ship, but
his generosity with his pay make up for any faults.

Nobert rambles on about various things until he settles on his girl
Talla in Bayhaven, and he how is looking forward to seeing her. He
goes on to describe her many attributes, though none of them seem to
be her looks. After some time the men manage to turn his conversation
to Bayhaven. Bayhaven is fine, or was when the ship was last there.
The old town has been repaired and there was a huge harvest that year
up north. Their biggest problem is that goods are piling up on the
docks because there aren't enough ships to move everything. Several
were lost in the battle of Bayhaven, and a few others to pirates
before that. Other ships are floating goods for the war (which is more
profitable) so Bayhaven just isn't getting enough ships to move
everything.

Nobert takes leave when he finishes eating, saying he is needed on
deck. The others go to work for a bit then retire to their quarters
for the night.

### 23rd of Suncrest, 1501dy

The next day is clear and bright. Around noon the party, all about
their duties, hear a ruckus on the deck. There they see a big crowd
gathered, a great conglomeration of sweaty sailors and noise. After
some shoving the party manages to work their way towards the innards
of the fray, only to find Beck and Nobert in the middle, preparing to
fight. The party finally surmises that Nobert and Beck had each had a
letter from their girl back home, only to find that she was one and
the same AND pregnant. After further discussion the two decide to
fight for her. The winner of the fight will get to stay a sailor,
loser will get all the money and go back to Bayhaven to marry Talla.

Inorem quickly steps in trying to settle it, pointing out that "This
is most certainly not how civilized people settle arguments and
certainly not on my.. erm.. this ship."

The captain however waves him aside with a brisk, "Go ahead, go ahead,
lets see the outcome. This should be a good show."

Both men quickly throw down their valuables in a pile as the mob of
sailors crowds Inorem out of the way. It is no contest. Beck easily
wins the fight, knocking Nobert out cold in less than a minute. Beck
looks through his pockets, making sure he didn't miss anything of
value to give to Nobert. He goes below, looking sad.

Someone dumps a bucket of sea water over Nobert, who despite the
numerous cuts, bruises, and one rather large lump upon the head, wakes
immediately, grins a wide, toothy grin, and shouts, "Congratulate me
boys, I'm getting married!" The crew all cheers.

### 24th of Suncrest, 1501dy

The next day arises, sleepy and full of sun. The seas sits calmly,
gently rocking the old boat. The party assembles over their evening
meal when they are approached by the man they had seen running from
the smith. He introduces himself as Thu'fir, settles himself down
amongst them and begins to talk. He likes to talk, mainly about
himself and his pet sword. He goes on and on about the number of
people he had killed with it, though when questioned they find that
the number is rather smaller than his bragging implies (namely 11).

### 25th of Suncrest, 1501dy

The next day is rainy, a steady chill drizzle, in which the crew works
steadily in alternating wind and rain.

Enoch, in his rambling about the ship (being a cleric, the crew will
not let him help), discovers that there is another cleric aboard and
decides to visit him the next day. The crew warns him that the other
cleric is a bit of a joke, quite old, blind, and deaf.

Enoch makes his way below decks to the infirmary. There he finds
Crolman, a human who looks to be a hundred years old and his
attendant, a young sailor who tries continually to make sense of the
old man's mumblings, hoping for a hint at what the weather will be in
the coming days. After some time and a bit of halting conversation
with the sailor Enoch surmises that Crolman had once been a cleric but
has now lost all his powers except for a gift of prophecizing the
weather, which Crolman foretells in fits and starts amidst numerous
comments on food and achy joints. While Enoch listenes, Crolman
suggests that he is hungry, thirsty, uncomfortable, and that the
weather will be fine for the next two days.

While Enoch visits the old cleric, Thordek looks for Beck. He finds
him in the carpentry shop of the ship, practicing his sword fighting.
Thordek watches as Beck's sword slices through the air, looking as if
it was drawing an elaborate picture inthe air as it flashes and
swirles, cutting and slicing.

Skeeve decides to go practice his flying.

### 26th of Suncrest, 1501dy

The next day there is much talk amongst the sailors about Crolman as
he seems to be very disturbed and more confused and upset than usual.
Each has his own opinion about Crolman's odd sayings that day. Enoch
goes below deck to see what is going on.

In the infirmary he finds Crolman and his helper, Crolman going on,
mostly about food but quite happily tossing in random, cryptic
comments regarding the weather, and in all appearances quite
disturbed. The sailor attending him is listening carefully to each
word he says, attempting to get a straightforward answer out of him,
so intently that he rather absentmidedly gets his food and drink and
sets them down before him. Crolman, in his own little world, is quite
oblivious to him. Crolman sits in his usual spot feeling around on the
table before him obviously looking for his food, "Hungry!?
...Thirsty?!"

Crolman mumbles, "They won't like us. Not gonna be happy. Not our
friends."

"Hungry!?" Crolman exclaimes as he feels around for his food. "Gonna
rain. Big storm. The ocean's gonna fall on our heads. Two days off, "
Crolman continues, still feeling around for his food, " Watch the
sail. Tie it fast. Don't let it come loose!"

"Wet!" Crolman complains as he finds his food having put his hand in
it as he felt for it.

Enoch then goes back on deck to tell the others about the latest, more
complete news on the coming storm.

### 27th of Suncrest, 1501dy

The next morning the captain announces that they are drawing close to
Fort Bolland, and should reach it by morning. There is a storm
approaching, but they expect to reach shore well before it hit. The
men need to work fast to secure the ship and get it unloaded before
the storm hit. They need to get some of the dead weight (weapons) out
of the hold so they will be less likely to sink with the high waves.
Everyone needs to pitch in to make sure they are ready when the storm
hit, or the ship risks being smashed into the docks.

The standing rule is no shore leave in Fort Bolland, due to the war.
This is still the case, but the captain allows some of the crew to go
ashore and seek lodgings, since there is no sense in sleeping on a
ship in a storm at port. He asks for volunteers to stay up all night
and watch over the ship.

At dawn they make ready to port.

An hour later the island draws near. The storm is a ways off yet.
Everyone relaxes. It looks like they will port and unload well ahead
of the storm. As they approach, the sailor in the crow's nest sounds
an alarm. They draw closer and see that the city is laid to waste. All
has been burned. The lighthouse is dark, and the docks are smoking. A
lone and crudely built watchtower had been built on the coast with a
sign of an eye with a thorn through it.

![This is the image on the flag seen flying over the city.](images/flag.gif)


Fort Bolland has been defeated.

The captain concludes the south has conquered the town. Their only
hope is to sail around the north end of the island and head for the
city of Breakshore. If the city still stands they may buy the weapons
in the hold, or at least allow port and re-supply.

Inorem reminds him of the storm.

The captain replies that now the storm will work in their favor. Ships
of the south may well pursue them if not for the bad weather.

They bring the ship about and make for the north. As they turned they
see and hear the alarm being raised from the tower on shore. They can
see men scurrying about on the shore, archers obviously standing to
the ready should they come within range.

The captain orders that all the cargo be dumped overboard. They are
too low in the water and too slow to have any hope of reaching
Breakshore like this. Inorem protests. The Captain relents. The crew
is ordered to empty only the Captains' share of the cargo.

Beck meets the loaders in the cargo hold and suggests they
"accidentally" dump some of Inorem's stuff as well, since his stuff is
towards the front and they will have to climb over and around it to
get to the captain's.

Hours pass. The ship rises out of the water as it gets lighter. The
men are sweating and exhausted as they work steadily trying to get
ahead of the oncoming storm.

Inorem is furious about the cargo being thrown over. Skeeve tries to
calm him down. Inorem assumes it was the humans and dwarf who did it,
though Skeeve helped with quite a bit.

The ship pushes west at a good clip.

A whistle blows, sounding general quarters. The party comes up on deck
to see the sky a sick green. The air is still and quiet. The men look
apprehensive. It is very warm and humid. The ship stops moving as
there is no longer any wind.

The captain orders the men to secure the sails, and the officers and
the party are called to the navigation room.

The captain explains the basics of weather navigation, heading into
the wind, not worrying about where you're going, just ride up one side
of a wave and down the other, no sails, as the wind will push the ship
over, OR the mast will snap like a twig.

The storm draws nearer. The temperature drops quickly. Suddenly it is
wet and chilly. The sea begins to churn.

The sky grows black as the sun sets. Rain begins to fall. As the ship
is buffeted by the storm, they begin to take on water. The ship is
still riding low in the ocean. The captain sits by the wheel upon his
barrel. Two stout men, Thordek and Thu'fir are sent to the wheel. The
captain explains that the more they aim INTO the wind, the safer they
are. The sails are tied up and everyone else is sent below.

Skeeve begins offering random spells he can do. None of them are "make
the storm go away", so the captain sends him belowdecks with the rest.
Thordek and Thu'fir have no trouble keeping the ship on course.

Night falls. Inorem stands just inside the door and runs the damage
control operation. At first he sets the men to bilge, but it is a lost
cause. Water comes in too fast. He concludes they need to lift the
ship up or they'll sink. He orders all hands to begin hauling his
weapons up from the hold, and shoving them out the door. He goes out
and sets to pushing the crates overboard.

Beck is there to remind the party that they could have tossed Inorem's
stuff hours ago, made better time, and saved themselves a lot of
trouble during the storm. Inorem's greed has put them in greater
danger.

Sailors (along with Eomer) work furiously to haul the heavy cargo out
of the hold and get it overboard. Then, one of them loses his footing
on the slick steps. The crate hits the deck and burst open, releasing
an avalanche of broadswords down the steps. The hapless sailor is
caught in the flow and sliced up as he falls downstairs in the pile of
weapons. Eomer is right behind him, but quick enough to leap up and
place his feet on the railings, holding himself above the steps as the
swords and victim slid by beneath him.

> As a Rogue, Eomer's reflex saving throws are through the roof, so he
> always gets to make cool saves like this.

The steps are now coated with seawater, blood, and swords. Enoch is
called. He grants healing to the injured man, while everyone else goes
about the tricky job of gathering up the swords as they slide back and
fourth on the rocking deck. The cargo unloading operation is delayed
as all of this happens.

Above deck there is a horrific crack as the mainsail rips free,
unfurls and catches the wind. The loose ropes whip about violently in
the wind. Beck is sent out with Eomer to secure the sail (if they can)
or cut it loose (if they have to) lest the mast be broken.

Eomer and Beck struggle to secure the sail. They have to climb the
rope netting and recover the sail. Eomer is blown off as he reaches
and misses. He falls into a wet coil of ropes on the deck.

> Although, even the most nimble of characters can still have a bad
> roll once (or twice) in a while....

Eomer is still conscious after the fall but is hurt. He gets back to
his feet and attempts to climb back up. He climbs back up but nearly
falls off again, managing only to catch hold. The mast creaks loudly.
The ship is listing heavily as the wind shoves the vessel around. Not
wanting to waste any more time, Eomer and Beck draw their swords and
cut the sail free.

They climb down and get belowdecks again. Inorem stands by, furious
that the sail has been cut.

A wave wash over the ship. Thordek losses his grip and is knocked over
while sliding across the deck, getting caught in the the ropes.
Thu'fir holds on to the wheel.

When all recover, they see that the captain is gone.

| Beck yells, " Bring us about, we must rescue him!" over the wind.
| Inorem shouts, " Belay that! Hold your course!"
| Beck, "We can't leave the captain!"
| Inorem, "I'm in charge!"
| Beck, "You won't take his ship!"
| Inorem, "Going back is suicide!"
| Beck, "Leaving him is suicidal for you!"

They draw their swords and start to fight as they fall down to the
quarterdeck. With them gone, Thordek, Thu'fir, and Eomer are free to
choose who they will obey. Should they abandon the captain, or risk
the entire ship by trying to come about? Cutting accross the wind will
be very dangrous.

> Yes, Eomer is mysteriously on deck again, even though he went in.
> This is one of those moments where the DM lost track and slipped up.
> I guess he came back outside for some reason?

They choose to go back for the captain and begin trying to turn about.
As the ship turns accross the wind, they loose control of the wheel
and the ship turns sideways. Eomer and Thu'fir try to regain course.
Waves wash over the deck. Thordek looses his footing and slides away,
ramming into the railing.

A flash of lightning reveals the two combatants on the Forecastle
Deck. Beck has run Irnoem through. He pushes the elf off of his sword
and into the sea.

Thordek grabs the banister and tries to work his way down to the
quarterdeck.

The ship starts to list. A wave comes across the deck and the ship
begins to lean to starboard. Water pours over the deck. One of the
hatches dips below the water for a moment and the ship takes a big
drink. The wave relents and the ship corrects itself. Those at the
wheel find it is much easier to steer but nothing happens when they
do.

Beck shouts above the din, "The storm has pushed us too far south.
We're being drawn into Stonehelm!"

Lightning flashes, and they can see the dark rocky teeth of Stonehelm
jutting out of the water. There is nothing they can do. The ship is
beyond their control, and all they can do is wait to be dashed against
the rocks.

The rocks are hidden for a moment as they are engulfed by waves. A
moment later the wave passes and the rocks are even closer. There is
an overpowering crash as the ship is torn apart.

All manage to keep their weapons and armor, but are obliged to leave
their packs behind. Thordek and Thu'fir, dressed in scale mail, were
sure to sink unless they gave up their armor. Thordek suggests they
lock arms over the captain's barrel. They do so, and jump in, using
the barrel as a raft. Skeeve uses his arcane magic and takes to the
air. He lights his staff and provides light over a rock jutting from
the water. He acts as a beacon to the others. Enoch calls on his holy
powers and walks on water with Eomer and 3 other of the crew he grabs.
Together they head toward the rock where Skeeve hovers.

The ship slides beneath the waves, and they are left among the
churning waves. Everyone ends up at the rock, clinging to it. They
have no food, no water, no way to rest, and no idea which way land is.
Enoch passes out from exposure. Those that survive are exhausted,
hungry, and thirsty, barely holding on in the midst of the storm.

As the night draws on, the storm relents.

### 28th of Suncrest, 1501dy

Dawn comes at last to show that most of the crew has drowned. Many
bodies are face-down in the shipwreck-filled water about them. As the
sky brightens, they can see the island to the south, less than a mile
away. Of those Enoch saved, there are only two sailors left. Thordek
and Thu'fir are kicking their way toward shore. Enoch helps the others
get to shore walking on water.

Thordek and Thu'fir get to shore and are waiting for the rest. Bits of
the ship litter the beach.

Endo is gone.

Way down the beach they find Beck digging a hole with a part of a
stool as a shovel, making a grave. Nobert is dead, and Beck wants to
bury him. He finishes the shallow grave and puts Nobert in. After a
moment of silence, Beck resolves to travel with the party back to
Bayhaven and marry Talla.

It is drizzling and cold. Everyone is exhausted and has been without
food and fresh water for about 10 hours. Nobody has slept in over 24
hours.

Eomer goes off looking for Endo. Enoch casts helping hand (a mystical
floating hand that searches a 5 mile radius) The magical hand drifts
away in search of Endo.

Thu'fir and Eomer search for roots etc to eat in the woods. Beck gives
them the gist of the island by drawing in the sand (what he has seen
on a map.) Obviously they are near Stonehelm and the river. They are
not sure however, if the Alidians have taken Breakshore and decide to
try to avoid them. Skeeve levitates and finds the river Â¾ of a mile
west. Everyone heads to the river except Enoch who decides to stay at
the beach in case Endo comes. The dwarf rinses off in the river.
Thu'fir cleans up as well.

After some time, the hand returns without Endo, and then disappears.

Enoch rests on the beach with the two who were saved while waiting for
the others to return. Everyone else rests by the river. Thordek offers
the use of his helmet to carry water back to Enoch. Beck washes it out
and fills it. They walk slowly and carefully back to Enoch. Enoch
drinks, sharing with the other two who decide to rest a bit before
moving on.

After a rest, they head for the road, which should be somewhere south.

Thu'fir goes first, then Eomer, Enoch, Beck, Skeeve, then Thordek.

The party encounters a group of soldiers coming from the underbrush
ahead of them. They are scratched up and covered in leaves from
running through the brush. Immediately the soldiers begin to question
them. There are three soldiers and one unarmed soldier.

They conclude the party is a group of mercenaries come to help the
northerners, and attempt to arrest them.

The party refuses to surrender their weapons. The uniformed unarmed
man speaks in the ear of the head soldier and the group spreads out.

The party see this is leading to combat and act first. Skeeve summons
a flaming sphere, rolling it toward one of the soldiers. The
underbrush catches fire in its wake. Weapons are drawn.

The unarmed soldier stands behind the others, casting magic at the
party. It is a hard battle. Both Enoch and Skeeve had spent much of
their magic in the night before, and had not had time to refresh
themselves.

One by one the soldiers fell. Skeeve and the other wizard end up in a
sort of duel, tossing fire magic at one another. Finally the opposing
wizard backs into the underbrush for cover. Skeeve commanded a flaming
sphere to travel around him in a tight circle, setting the brush on
fire. Thus surrounded, the sphere rolls onto the wizard and he
perished in flames.

As the last soldier fell, Eomer cries out, "Isn't anyone everglad to
see us?!?!?!"

The party retreats for a few minutes, as the fire spreads. Eventually
it burns itself out on the soaked vegitation and leaves a smouldering
hole in the woods. The smell of burning skin and hair surrounds them.
The party scavenges for usable items amongst the dead.

Beck points out that these soldiers were without supplies, so
therefore they must have had a base or camp nearby. Eomer changes into
the guard's uniform he scavenged from the least damaged soldier,
disguising himself as one of the guards, telling his party to stay
about 200 hundred yards from him. He follows the way the soldiers had
come and finds a clearing with the remains of a fire and camp. While
searching the area Eomer finds a cut length of rope, the cloth
wrappings from iron rations, a dead soldier, obviously the captain of
the band they saw, who was wearing a scale mail and has a horn. His
neck has been snapped.

Eomer calls the rest of the party and they join him. Thordek searches
and finds four backpacks with bed rolls and three iron rations. He
also finds Endo's staff.

Eomer is concerned at this. He knows Endo would not have left this
behind on purpose. He searches as well, and using his knowledge of the
wild he determines that a horse had been tied here, then was ridden
east, towards Breakshore. Other horses were here and have gone west.
Skeeve, Thu'fir, and Beck each take a backpack. The party stays to
rest. Thu'fir starts a fire and the rest go to sleep. Thu'fir heads
about 100 yards toward the conquered town (west) to watch for any more
activity.

### 1st of Last Summer, 1501dy

At 1 am the party sets out on the road. They follow it to Breakshore.

![The village of Breakshore](images/breakshore.gif)

The city is a medium-sized village along the coast. There are no ships
in the port, which means they will not be escaping the isand soon.

Enoch and Skeeve go into town and head for the church. The church is
overflowing with books. They speak to the head priest who explains the
situation to them.

The Alidians (the southern forces) took the town without much
resistance about a fortnight ago. They took the mayor away, but left
everyone else alone. They commandeered a few farmhouses, took a goodly
supply of food, all of the horses, and slew a few men who resisted,
but they departed after a week and headed in the direction of Fort
Bolland. The lands here in the north are still under martial law, and
nobody is permitted to travel in the north without official papers.
Anyone found in the wilderness will be assumed to be part of the
resistance (of which there was very, very little) and arrested. The
priest suggests they might be able to travel to Crossway and appeal to
the local governor for papers if they explain their situation. They
might also be able to buy forged papers.

He also tells them he has seen Endo and that he had quickly left town
with a friend.

The rest of the party goes to the inn while Eomer goes to the priest
and tries get an explanation of whom Endo was traveling with.

The rest of the party goes to the tavern / inn. The bartender welcomes
them and says that meals were free for Alidian soldiers. Thu'fir
claims to be a soldier for a free meal.

> This really messed me up. I was trying to set them up with their
> next adventure and Thu'fir runs into a conquered town, claiming to
> belong to the enemy army. Aside from the fact that this was a pretty
> obvious lie (his accent was all wrong) and the price of a meal was
> trivial for him, this screwed things up since the claim spooked the
> bartender. He wasn't about to invite them to help if they claimed to
> be part of the forces that robbed and slaughtered their way through
> the town a couple of weeks ago.
>
> I got confused at how to play this, though. Next door at the church,
> Eomer was telling the priest he'd been a member of a ship bringing
> them supplies for war. At the same time, Thu'fir was claiming to be
> one of the Alidians. Everyone in town would have seen the party
> march into town together just a few minutes ago.
>
> We eventually got this sorted out out-of-character and sort of
> glossed over it.
>
> I didn't want to side-track the entire session and waste a ton of
> time roleplaying this stupid argument when the innkeeper realized
> this outlander was trying to swindle him out of a free meal. It
> didn't seem worth delaying the game for the price of a few coppers.
>
> Looking back, I should have just played it through. If Thu'fir was
> going to lie to a complete stranger over such a tiny amount of
> money, then he should have to deal with the idiocy that ensued. (And
> we ARE talking about a very tiny amount of cash here. Less than
> one-thousandth of his cash on hand) Either way, the innkeeper should
> dislike him now, either because he's an enemy or because he tried to
> take advantage of him.

He is quickly found out when the bartender checks with the priest.

The bartender offers to help. He explains that there were supplies
hidden in the smith's house but that the house had been taken over by
the soldiers.

> And so ends our first session. An awful lot of this session was
> "cutscene", where predetermined events unfolded and the players
> could only watch. I HATE having a lot of predetermined events, but I
> think everyone understood that the first session naturally must
> start with some setup to get them where they need to be and
> establish the plot. Next session they will be free to act as they
> see fit.

## Mar Talos

Mar Talos is home to the Elves. Other races are not allowed to roam
the land, and must remain in the capital / port city of Talosport. It
is also the home of Sagemaster Teerin Forwinol.

Sagemaster was a major figure in our first campaign. He's over 400
years old. He is respected and known throughout the other islands and
Dunlock. He's wise, thoughtful, and slow to act on anything. He
prefers to watch and let things play out instead of getting involved,
even when he has the power to intervene. He loves peace, and gets
along well with other races.

Mar Talos has benefitted over the last 100 years with him as the
leader. The island is strong, prosperous and secure.

## Session 2

### 2nd of Last Summer, 1501dy (late morning)

Skeeve and Enoch have a conversation with the head priest. Apparently
Alidian solders now roam the land, which is under martial law.
Anticipating that perhaps resistance forces might take to the hills
and strike at them from the wilderness, the Alidians have decreed that
nobody is allowed in the countryside, or even outside of town. To
travel abroad openly, they will need travel papers. He suggests such a
thing might be obtained in the town of Crossway to the south, either
by appealing to the local magistrate and pleading their case, or
(perhaps) through forgery.

Skeeve thanks the man for his time, and the two turn their attention
to the piles of dusty books in the library. There seems to be far more
than one would expect in a town this small. Books fill every shelf,
cover every desk, and are piled in various corners of the room.

Most of the books are mundane histories or geneologies. There are also
books of heroic deeds. These are books written in flattering terms
about various nobles, and usually commissioned by the noble in
question. As a nobleman gets old, he will usually hire someone to
write a greatly exaggerated version of his life, and have it added to
the local library. The books have no value to anyone, except that the
nobles generally pay vast sums of money to have them written. The
church makes quite a bit from this practice, and so these books are
kept in the library alongside more serious works in order to encourage
the practice. There are an awful lot of these sorts of books here.

There is also a book of maps. In it, Skeeve finds a handy map of the
surrounding area:

![Northern Mar Tesaro](images/map_upper_mar_tesaro.gif)

Skeeve borrows a nearby stand and spends a few hours making a copy of
the map for himself. He also asks one of the scribes handy about the
overflow of books. The scribe explains that over a year ago (before
Crossway fell to the Alidians) the people of Crossway sent their books
north to Woodhurst for safekeeping. When Crossway fell, the people of
Woodhurst sent their books here. So, this town has rather a lot of
books from other areas.

One of the books catches Enoch's eye. It seems to be a book written in
an archaic form of common, (with bits of other old languages added,
seemingly at random) which makes it very hard to decipher. This would
seem to suggest that the book is quite old, although from the
condition of the book it seems to be new, perhaps less than a decade
old. This is sometimes the case when old, tattered books are copied,
but it is customary to note the purpose and origin of the original
work when doing so. This book has no such markings. Indeed, this book
is not signed or dated at all. And finally, every other page has been
left blank, as if the author expected someone to translate this work.

Enoch asks the scribe about this and he explains that the book has
floated from place to place for some time. Various scholars have taken
a crack at the old text, but none of them have been able to
successfully translate it. He adds that Chronicler Rhillos in the city
of Fol Thron (somewhere south, he doesn't explain further) has offered
a reward â€“ a bounty, if you will â€“ for anyone who can figure out what
the book is all about.

Enoch notices that some of the old text seems to be an old form of
common from Dunlock, his homeland. He gives it a try. A few hours
later, he has managed to translate the following:


<div class="document">
**Part I: The Mountain Elves**

*Editor's Note: What follows is not a proper history, but instead a
collection of tales and folklore from the inhabitants of Mar Tesoro.
These have passed on through the generations, doubtless with many
changes and alterations. The story usually varies greatly depending on
the geographical location and race of the storyteller. The most common
elements of the differing accounts are gathered here to form a single
tale. It is recorded here for archival and reference, not for any
supposed historical value. Indeed, many portions of the following are
highly unlikely and should be viewed with utmost skepticism.*

- Chronicler Norvus

In the earliest days of Mar Tesoro, the southern lands were inhabited
by a peaceful clan of mountain Elves. They were gentle and kind, slow
to quarrel and preferred music and wine above swordplay and bloodshed.
They lived on the slopes of the great mountain, which they named Mt.
Fiore, which means "the place of flowers".

The mountain was tall and green in those days, and was fair to behold
even in the cold of winter. Fairer still it was in the warm months,
when the slender trees would bloom large flowers and clothe the
mountain in white and gold. The tall peaks caught the spring rain and
made the lands below rich and fertile.

Few others visited the lands. Only a few Gnomes and fewer humans had
walked the slopes, and no Dwarf had even set eyes to the mountain in
those days.

But Dwarf-King Thul Marblade came at last to the shores of Mar Tesoro.
He came to the Elven chieftain Ellas Morad, and asked for leave to
climb the mountain. "For", said he, "it is the way of all Dwarves to
seek the mountains and learn their ways."

Morad gave him permission to walk the slopes, and the Dwarf departed
at once. With him were many strong but grim Dwarves of his kind. As
they ascended, a powerful greed came over them, for they saw that the
stone of the mountain was filled with both silver and gold in plenty,
as well as many fair gems and rare stones. Never in all the Earth had
any Dwarf seen such abundant riches, and they marveled that such
wealth had lain undisturbed for so long.

Thul Marblade climbed to the pinnacle of the tallest peak, and there
he spoke to his kin, "Brothers, here lies the greatest of all
mountains of the Earth. Behold how rich it is with treasure, how bold
and strong its rock, and how kingly its shape! Surely we must build
here a mine, or we are no Dwarves at all."

His company agreed, and they departed from the mountain.
</div>

Enoch shows the scribe his work, and the scribe suggests he take the
book with him. He requests that he show it to the scholars in Fol
Thron once he completes the task.

> This is a little sidequest / minigame I have for Enoch. I've set it
> up so that the more he translates, the easier it gets. He earns a
> little XP for doing so. Anytime he has 8 free hours and a stable,
> well-lit place he can attempt to translate the next section. There
> is a special "alphabet" novelty dice to go along with this.
>
> This is also a fun way to convey information / disinformation,
> history, and lore without reading it to the group myself. I just
> hand out this text (which is printed in a nice faux-medeval style of
> caligraphy) and they players can read it at their leisure.

While Enoch translates the text at the library, the Eomer and Thu'fir
gather at the blacksmith's shop. Upon learning that the party had lost
many of their basic supplies in the shipwreck, he suggests they help
him with a problem he's having.

Before the city fell, he had stored away a cache of weapons, armor,
and other provisions in the case of invasion. When the attack came, it
happened a bit quicker than he anticipated, and he didn't have time to
reach the supplies or distribute them. Worse, soldiers came and siezed
his house and have been living there ever since. The supplies are
hidden in a secret room in the basement, but he can't hope to sneak
past the guards to reach them.

The blacksmith suggests that the party try to sneak in and retrieve
the items. If they do so, they can keep some of the stash for
themselves. The only requirement is that they not kill any guards. If
they do, the soldiers will simply retailiate by coming into town and
killing people in order to exact revenge.

Eomer asks about what unforms the northerners used. It turns out they
didn't have proper fancy uniforms like the Alidians, but instead wore
simple black sashes around their waist or arms.

Thu'fir asks what they have been fighting about. The blacksmith
explains that the war was over territory. Apparently there is a
valuable mountain here called Mount Khelberg. It seems to be a rich
source of both gems and gold. The blacksmith explains that the
mountain is the birthright of his people: King Lorman (their leader)
is the great great great (etc) grandson of the first foreman of the
miners. He dug the first shafts and the land should be his. This is
why they attacked the Alidians.

Finally Eomer get back to the subect of the supplies they need to
steal.

Gereg draws a quick map of his house.

> In our session we use a poster-sized dry-erase tabletop battle grid.
> I can draw dungeons or whatever on it as we go, and then use it as a
> battlegrid when the time comes for combat. When Gereg the smith drew
> his map for the players, I just drew it on the grid. After the
> session I forgot to take a picture before erasing it. So, I created
> a rough copy on graph paper to post here on the site. Otherwise, the
> following text would just be too hard to follow.


![A crude drawing of the layout of Gereg's house.](images/map_house.jpg)

There is a front door on the house that faces west, towards the town.
Behind the house is a storm door that leads into the cellar. There is
a secret door in the cellar that conceals the goods in question.
Unfortunately, the door is barred from the inside, so they can't just
pick the lock to get in. Someone will have to sneak in the front door.

Right behind the house, about ten feet from the rear door, is the
woods. Gereg suggests leaving the heavy items there in the woods where
he can recover them later.

By this time the sun is going down. Eomer goes east through the woods
to the backsmith's shop, which is a ten-minute walk. Everyone else
gathers at the tavern and waits with a glass of ale. (Skeeve has Tea,
Enoch abstains.)

Eomer watches the building as the sun sets. It looks like there is a
circle of tents in front of the house, and a number of guards are
gathered there, talking. He sneaks up to the back of the house and
peeks through the rear window with his mirror.

> DM mistake. Looking back, would Eomer still have his mirror? They
> lost their backpacks in the shipwreck, and spent an awful night
> being beaten against the rocks off the coast. Assuming he even had
> it with him (and not in his pack) would the mirror have survived the
> harsh treatment? Since I didn't challenge him on this, then I guess
> so...

A soldier is inside, working on something. Eomer can hear the banging
of pots. This room is clearly the kitchen. After watching the place a
bit longer, he returns to town.

They discuss their plans. Thu'fir suggests that instead of sneaking in
the front door, they could just pull off the hinges. They worry that
perhaps this would be too noisy. Enoch points out that he could create
a zone of silence. This magic power of his will deaden all noise in a
20-foot radius.

They agree on this. Skeeve decides to stay at the tavern. He realizes
they have no place to stay for the night. The soldiers tooks several
houses, and the displaced families have filled the small inn.

Beck cuts in, suggesting they go in fighting. He's clearly drunk.
Thu'fir buys him another drink, and gives the bartender enough money
to keep them coming all night. They slip out and leave Beck to his
ale.

> The guys made it clear they wanted to leave Beck (an NPC party
> member) behind. I don't know why, but I didn't want to force the
> character on them. So, I decided he got drunk instead. Looking back,
> this makes sense. He was first mate on Ocean's Majesty for a long
> time. Most of his firends had been killed when the ship sank, and he
> hadn't really taken time to deal with this yet. A good evening
> drinking goodbye to his lost mates was probably about right for him.

Eomer, Thu'fir, Enoch, and Thodek sneak through the woods to Gereg's
house. Enoch and Thodek stop well short of the house, not wanting to
make a lot of noise in their heavy armor. Eomer moves forward silently
and looks around.

Juding from the light, there is a campfire in front of the house. He
listens carefully and determines that two guards are having a
conversation. Using the mirror, he peeks in the window, but it is dark
and quiet inside. He gives the signal, and Enoch casts silence on the
door. Eomer takes the hinges off and Thu'fir takes the beam off. The
beam falls soundlessly down the steps within the zone of silence.

Eomer sneaks in and goes to the secret door, which is a pegboard of
tools. He moves one of the tools and finds it makes a very slight
sound. The door is just outside of the silenced area! So, he needs to
open a door which is covered in hanging metal tools, and he must do so
without making any noise. He takes a deep breath...

...the door opens silently. He signals to Thu'fir, who is at the
bottom of the steps looking in, letting him know where the edge of the
zone is. They begin moving boxes. There are seven boxes of varying
sizes, plus a sack and some other loose goods. Thordek and Enoch help
move goods from the house into the woods, just on the edge of the
zone. There are seven crates, a sack, a book, a lantern, and a
longbow.

> Can you spot the DM mistake?
>
> It's nighttime. Dark. They are in a basement. How can they see what
> they are doing? Eomer, Enoch, and Thu'fir are all human, and should
> be feeling around in the dark at this point. I never noticed these
> sort of errors until I went back and reviewed our sessions.

The goods unloaded, they realize that Eomer needs to stay inside when
they put the door back on. If they want to hide all traces of their
work, then he needs to place the bar on the door again, which can only
be done once it's in place and closed.

Enoch casts silence again, since he guesses that the five-minute
duration is nearly up. They replace the door, attach the hinges, and
Eomer places the bar on the door again. While this is happening, the
members outside see a group of five guards head off towards town,
carrying a torch. They conclude they can't do anything about this now.
They have to wait for Eomer.

Eomer, still inside, must sneak upstairs, out the front door, around
the house, and meet them in back. He makes it upstairs and to the
front door without difficulty.

Just before he leaves the house he pauses. He goes around into the
kitchen and checks it out. He finds lots of dry goods. He also finds a
sack of iron rations. He opens one, pisses on it, and then carefully
re-wraps it and places it back in the sack.

He slips out the front door and rejoins the party out back.

While this was going on, Thu'fir had gone through the crates,
suspicious of the smith's story and wanting to make sure the story
they had been told was true. He found the following:

* 3 bucklers
* 3 tindertwigs
* Very large bundle of arrows
* Several longswords wrapped in blankets
* 30 iron rations
* Another map
* A purse of gold.
* A very ornate horn
* A pile of blankets
* 3 iron skullcaps
* 10 sets of heavy boots
* 10 empty water skins
* breastplate
* Longbow
* lantern
* map case
* several backpacks

They take enough backpacks, blankets and waterskins to supply the
party. They take enough food to supply themselves for two days, and
they take the horn. They leave everything else hidden in the bushes.

The party sneaks back into town, on the way seeing a number of
soldiers leaving, heading back towards the house. They are rolling a
large barrel. They crouch down and consider taking these guys out.
Eomer points out they could kill these guys and hide the bodies in the
woods or dump them in the ocean. Enoch responds that even if the
bodies are never recovered, the Alidians will still assume the townies
are responsible, and take revenge on them anyway.

The party goes to the tavern. Beck is passed out at the bar. The
bartender is red-faced and wearing a large bruise on the side of his
face. They realize the soldiers must have come here and taken some
ale. They wake Beck.

His head snaps up, "Alright! Let's go get those guys." He doesn't
realize they have already finished.

They lead him out of town to where Skeve has made camp. Skeeve
examines the horn and identifies its magic properties. Apparently if
you blow the horn it will stun anyone caught in front of it. The horn
will be unnaturally loud, as well, perhaps even reaching miles away.

Thu'fir goes to the blacksmith and lets him know how things went. He
shows him the horn. The blacksmith tells him the owner of the horn
died several days ago, killed by Alidian soldiers. Thu'fir gives him
fifty gold for it anyway. They look over Thu'fir's map and Gereg
explains that if they want to avoid the road, then there are two ways
they can travel south.

![Northern Mar Tesaro](images/map_upper_mar_tesaro.gif)

"The first way is that you could head west, cross the bridge, and then
head south through Upper Bolwood. The woods are dense and unyielding,
and some travelers tell tales of Ettins prowling on the edge of the
woods from time to time. If you come through the woods you should find
yourselves in the village of Woodhurst.

"The other way you could go is to head due south over Tinderward. This
would be much faster by my count, but it would take you over flat open
grasslands where you have no hope of hiding. If you encounter the
enemy soldiers, you'll be discovered for sure. Furthermore, you would
have to pass over the Weather Hills, which are home to a nasty and
devious tribe of Goblins."

Thu'fir examines the map before he replies, "Which way would you say
is the most dangerous?"

Gereg shruggs, "Beats me. I always take the road."

In any case, Gereg has no idea which way Endo went. Thu'fir thanks the
blacksmith and returns to the party where they debate over what path
they should take. There is much discussion about which path would be
better. They argue about which way Endo might have gone, and if he
would want them to follow him. Eventually they decide on the south
way, over Tinderward. They sleep.

### 3rd of Last Summer, 1501dy

At dawn they set out. Beck awakens but doesn't seem to be too hung
over. He doesn't say anything about the night before.

They move south, passing several small farms and into the open
grasslands. Eomer leads them at a strenuous pace. As the day wears on,
Thu'fir notices that several back birds have been circling them for
most of the day. The birds are too distant to be identified, but their
dark outlines can be seen clearly against the blue sky of late summer.

The birds are too distant for them to do anything about it. The day
passes as the hills to the south draw near.

As the sun drops low they see the outline of Joland Village ahead.
They wonder what to do about this. Is the town occupied? Certainly
they shouldn't just march into town together. Eomer puts on the "good"
Alidian uniform they own (the other one is bloody and slashed) and
walks into town alone, while the others hide in the grass outside of
town.

Dusk settles as he enters town. The little village is very quiet.
Angry eyes peer out at him from the homes, but nobody speaks. A old
man is sitting on the stoop in front of the blacksmith shop. He's
rocking back on his chair, looking thoughtful. He has a hard, creased
face and a bushy white mustache.

At last he looks at the uniform and greats Eomer, "You lost, friend?"

Eomer is evasive, but as they talk his ruse about being in the army
wears thin. He is alone and speaking with the wrong accent to be an
Alidian.

Finally the man asks him, "You're not an Alidian, are you?"

Eomer doesn't need the disguise anymore, "No, I'm not."

The man cheers up at this and introduces himself as Polan. He is the
closest thing the town has to a leader. He asks how the towns to the
north are doing. It's clear he doesn't have any idea the north has
lost. When Eomer tells him that Fort Bolland and Breakshore are taken,
the man concludes that the war is over. He looks sad.

He asks if Eomer knows anything about missing children. He doesn't.
Polan tells his story:

"About four days ago one of the little ones, a kid about seven years
old, disappeared from the fields just north of town. Two days later,
other kids were picking hardberries at the bushes over yonder", He
points to an area west of the town, "and the kids say a man jumped out
of the bushes and took one of them and carried the little girl off.
Now, the soldiers took all our weapons when they took this town. That
don't matter much â€˜cuz they also took all the young men and women
capable of using weapons. All we have left are the sick, the old, and
the children."

Eomer asks where the parents are. Polan explains that the mothers are
here in town, but the fathers were taken south weeks ago.

Eomer gets up and calls the other party members into town. It's
obvious the enemy sodiers left this town to its fate ages ago and
aren't likely to come back any time soon.

He explains the situation as the evening closes in. By the time he's
finished the tale, it's dark out.

Thordek and Eomer want to go right now and look for the kids.

Skeeve is not so sure, "Look, we don't even know if the children are
still alive."

Beck shruggs, "Sure, but the guy who took them is, and we can at least
fix that."

A debate ensues. Skeeve is sensitive to the plight of the villagers,
but doesn't want to get dragged into helping everyone they meet on the
way. He reminds them that they are chasing Endo, who left over a day
ahead of them, riding horseback.

Enoch insists he will go and look for the kids, even if he has to do
it alone.

> This was a lengthy, in-character debate. Dan did a good job of
> playing his character here. He's neutral, and he's playing it that
> way. It would be easy to just take every quest handed to you by an
> NPC, but I like how he picked his reasons and argued his case.

Thus overruled and outnumbered, Skeeve agrees to go along, but
suggests they wait until morning.

Eomer and others protest, wanting to begin now. Polan suggests that
trying to track someone in the dark, even with the aid of magical
light, is foolish.

The party relents and checks into the inn.

> I really have to watch these guys. After "jogging" for 12 straight
> hours they want to go off into the woods at night. They don't
> recognize the physical limitations of their characters, and would go
> without food or sleep for days just because they're "in a hurry" if
> I let them. If I remind them they are tired, they roll their eyes
> like I'm being unreasonable by sugesting they might be a bit
> tuckered out and in need of rest after more or less running a
> marathon.
>
> I need a better way to give them a sense of fatigue. These guys are
> heroes, not gods.

### 4th of Last Summer, 1501dy

At morning they gather and interview a few people. They learn that the
children saw a man in a robe with a beard. That is the extent of what
they can recall.

The party walks to the fields in the north and looks for clues. They
find nothing. They go to the hardberry bushes and look for clues.

![This is the special "DM" map I made for this quest. The players did
 not see it of course, but this will help readers to follow along. I
 hope.](images/map_tracking.gif)

They are at the base of a hill, facing west. The bushes are at the
foot of the hill. Assuming the kidnpper went west, he must have gone
around the hill to the northwest or southwest. The hill is steep
enough that it would be impossible for an encumbered human to walk up
it without leaving some fairly obvious marks.

Thordek searches. Upon further investigation, he sees an opening in
the center of the bush. It looks as though someone hid themselves in
the deep parts of the bush and then leaped out, breaking many small
branches in the process. The hollowed-out space is barely big enough
for a man. Assuming this hole is related to the missing children, then
what they seek must be man-sized or smaller.

Thu'fir also searches. He finds a small basket in the deep part of the
bush. It is partly filled and looks to have been dropped (not hidden)
suddenly.

Thordek and several party members go northwest, and Thu'fir leads the
rest southwest.

They come to a point where the southern slope is less steep and it is
possible to walk down. From here they can continue to follow the ridge
around the hill (heading west) or go south into the valley, towards
the river.

There are no visible prints to be seen on the slope going down.
Thu'fir's knowledge of wilderness lore tells him that even a child
walking alone could no descend the soft grassy slope without leaving
some hint. They continue west.

Both groups reunite at the other side of the hill, which is now east
of them. They are on the edge of a watery glade. The water is still
and filled with reeds. Insects drone nearby in the early morning sun.
If someone passed throughthe water they would be hard to follow. The
party decides to go around the glade to the south.

Eomer does a careful search and finds a hardberry along the way
leading southwest. It sits alone in the grass. They do not grow
anywhere near wet areas, so this berry must have come from elsewhere.
This is the first clue they have seen in some time that suggests they
are on the right track.

All the party is now together. As they progress west, the area becomes
thicker and many drooping plants grab at them and hinder movement.
Jaggers poke them from among the thick weeds. They emerge in a very
small clearing, and see that they are at the southern edge of the
glade. They have clearly found themselves on a path. They can follow
the path west, or south towards the river. To the north is the boggy
water.

Thordek searches and finds several strands of light blond hair caught
on a jagger bush. They hang at about eye level for a human, (which is
above Thodek's head, since he's a Dwarf) hinting that they either came
from an adult or from a child being carried.

They continue. The path is plain and easy to follow. It heads west and
then north, tracing the edge of the glade. They come to a group of
large dreary willow trees. Their long branches reach down and touch
the edge of the water. They look out across the bog, where east of
them is the hill where they began their search.

Many large insects and a few butterflies are moving about here. They
can hear the chirping of many other insects.

The path turns west from here. The path ahead becomes rocky and begins
to climb upward. On either side, tall trees lean inward over the path,
forming a great green canopy overhead. Foul black birds caw at them
from above as they pass.

They discuss the birds. Are these related to the birds that watched
them crossing the plains yesterday? None of them seem to have enough
knowledge of the wild to tell. They move on.

A small cliff rises in front of them. The wall is a rough tumble of
huge boulders about 20ft high. There is no longer any path visible,
but from here they can go north or south along the cliff wall, or
climb it.

Eomer searches and notices some moss has been disturbed on the rocky
ground to the south. A small patch has been scraped away, which may
indicate someone has walked here in the last few days. They decide to
go south.

Suddenly Thordek bids the party to halt. He has spotted a tripwire
across the path. Eomer examines it, finding that it leads to a pile of
large rocks that look out-of-place atop the cliff-like slope. It's
easy for them to figure out that the wire probably causes a torrent of
falling rocks to spill accross the path. Instead of disabling it, they
simply step over the tripwire and move on.

After a few minutes the cliff gives way and they come to an open area.
They walk over the green field for several minutes. Ahead, they see a
wide stone ruin. It was once tall, but weather and age have thrown the
stones down and they now lay in a broad heap. All that remains is a
ring of stone making the outer wall of where the structure once stood.
Broad steps lead up to what was once the inside of the building. The
"interior" floor is covered in scattered stones.

Thordek studies what remains of the stonework. He determines the
building was made perhaps 200 years ago. It is not of Dwarven make,
and is most probably of Human design. Given the configuration of
blocks, he guesses that the building was probably a church or temple.
It was not a fortified structure, at any rate.

Walking around the structure, they find two sets of cold stone steps
leading down into the basement.

## Grey Moor

![](images/map_grey_moor.gif)

Grey Moor was the site of our very first campaign. At level one, the
players stepped off the boat in the city of Bayhaven. By the time they
were done they had walked all over the island many times, broken an
evil curse that was killing the crops and draining the land of life,
and then joined in a battle to prevent a single greedy nobleman for
siezing control of the Island. Along the way they teamed up with Eomer
and Endo and attained level 3.

Grey Moor is about 90% human, 5% halfling, and 5% "everyone else".
Dwarves are known to live in the mountains but their number is not
known so they are not included in this total. Elves are very uncommon
and usually never leave Bayhaven. The whole island is seen as rather
bumpkin-ish to the other islands.

The area north of the mountains is uninhabited. The coast this mostly
low rocky cliffs or very steep slopes. In other places, the coastal
area is shallow and rocky. This means that for a majority of the
island it was difficult or impossible to bring in large ships safely.

Bayhaven was the only good port for ships capable of inter-island
travel. The others couldn't support much more than small fishing
vessels. It is also the biggest and most sophisticated city.

The town of Stackroot is home to a modest but profitable gemstone
mine. About a third of the population is Halfling. The Halflings work
the mine, while the humans handle the governing of the city and
growing of crops.

A little infomation on the city of Bridgehold and Highstone Monastery
can be gleaned from Endo's backstory.

The other cities are just tiny little farming villages and not worth
mentioning here.

At the end of our first campaign, the players had founded a new city,
knocked a nobleman out of power, and established the council of Grey
Moor.

## Session 3

### 4th of Last Summer, 1501dy (early morning)

The day is overcast. Above ground this church is destroyed. All that
remains is a two-foot wall making the outline where the building once
stood. The building was made from large stone block, and large pale
stones are scattered throughout the tall grass. Inside, two sets of
stairs (one on each side of the building) lead down into the earth.

Thordek notes that a large curving stairway leads down into a dank
basement area. Black staining along the bottom of the stone block
walls shows that this area is damp or flooded during some parts of the
year, although it's dry right now. At random, they choose the southern
set of stairs to investigate.

Thu'fir listens carefully at the top of the stairs. Nothing. They head down. Eomer stays behind to guard the entrance.

> Pat missed the first couple of hours of this session, so aside from
> dealing with some locked doors, his character (Eomer) remained
> behind. This really hurt the group, since a rogue would have made a
> lot of the challenges they faced much easier.

![](images/uc_map1.gif)

The room is empty aside from the door leading north. It is locked.
Skeeve goes upstairs and gets Eomer so he can unlock the door for
them.

The keyhole is rusty. Eomer attempts to pick it but can not open it.
He manages to jam the lock in the attempt. Since they can't enter this
way unless they force the door, the party decides to try the other
entrance.

![](images/uc_map2.gif)

This room is the mirror image of the southern one. There is a large
stone block, about 3x3 foot (looks like one of the major blocks from
upstairs) The top of the block is stained with old blood. An axe rests
on the stone. There is a small pile of chopped firewood here, beside
the chopping block. There is a locked door leading south.

Skeeve calls Eomer to help him try this door. Eomer fails again. Once
again, the lock is jammed. They have now jammed both entrances. They
talk about what to do next. The doors are old rotting wood, but the
wood is quite thick and framed in iron.

> Eomer made four lock-pick attempts this session. The first two were
> rolled by me and the latter were rolled by Pat once he joined the
> game later in the evening. In order, the rolls were 2, 2, 1, and 1.
> I don't usually record dice rolls, but these were so unlikely I
> thought I should note them here. He was just very unlucky. There was
> nothing unusually difficult about the locks he faced.

Thordek finally grows tired of debate and begins hammering on the
northern door. The sound is tremendous, and echoes in the small room.
They know they have lost any chance at surprise or stealth.

After nearly an hour of labor, Thordek has broken open the bottom half
of the door, allowing the party to squeeze through. They find
themselves in a hallway that looks like it was once nicely decorated.
The remains of a rug, now tattered and consumed by mildew, runs down
the center of the floor. Directly opposite of them is the other set of
double-doors that they jammed earlier.

![](images/uc_map3.gif)

They check the hallway. From here they may go south through a new set
of double doors, or explore a single door that faces north. They
examine the double doors, then turn back and go through the single
door.

![](images/uc_map4.gif)

This is a dining area. A large rustic wooden table sits in the center
of the room, along with a single chair. The table looks newer than
other wooden items (such as doors) you see about. While suffering from
bad moisture damage, its certainly "new" compared to other items
around. It and the chair look to be poorly made. They are rough and
unevenly cut from untreated wood.

Thordek searches the room and finds a silver fork under the table. He
also notices a few crumbs on the table and chair that indicate they
have been used recently. They note that there is a door in the room
but decide to look back the hallway a bit prior to looking in there.

As they move in front of the double doors, a large trapdoor opens
beneath them. Thu'fir falls but Skeeve catches himself on the edge,
dropping his staff in the process, almost falling in himself.

Thu'fir lands in darkness twenty feet down, on a set of sharp spikes.
Thordek pulls Skeeve up. Skeeve cries out the name of his staff,
"Sucursis!". The staff obeys and returns to his hand. He casts
levitate on Thu'fir and they help him out of the hole. Enoch heals his
wounds, which are severe, but not life-threatening.

While still levitating Thu'fir moves over to the door to open it, and
floats through. The others prepare to jump across. The jump is a bit
difficult, since they must jump diagonally over the pit and through a
doorway. The diagonal means they can't get a good running jump, and
the door frame means they can't shorten the jump by cutting the
corner. The jump is only four feet, but will still be a bit tricky.
Skeeve casts jump and leaps across without effort. Enoch and Beck
follow. Thordek falls in. Skeeve casts levitate to lift him out. They
are now in another hallway, similar to the last. There are two doors
along the south wall.

![](images/uc_map5.gif)

Much to the dismay of the others, Skeeve knocks on the first door.
When he gets no answer, he shrugs and opens it. A huge, vile
centipede, ten feet long and the width of a small tree, scuttles
forward as he opens the door. Its ugly, eyeless head raises up and
bites him on the chest.

The party wants to move in to attack, but Skeeve is in the way. He
wants to retreat but they have all gathered around him. The battle is
a disorganized mess. Skeeve hurls magic missiles and the fighters
bring their weapons to bear. Skeeve earns himself another severe bite
on the chest and passes out. The hammer of Thordek and the blade of
Thu'fir begin to tear the creature apart. Enoch burns it with a beam
of holy white light. Skeeve wakes up and crawls away. Thu'fir chops
part of it off. Beck finishes the thing with two quick stabs from his
rapier.

Enoch heals Skeeve.

With the battle over, they step over the nasty carcass and examine the
room.

![](images/uc_map6.gif)

This room looks to have been some sort of dorm room once. The remnants
of a ruined bed frame sits in one corner, as well as a few bits from a
rotted desk which now sits legless on the floor. Thordek searches the
room and finds nothing. They move on to the next room.

Enoch *carefully* peaks into this room. It is entirely empty, although
the northeast corner bears the mark of new construction. There is an
area encased in more rough wood. While crude, it is heavy and sturdily
made.

![](images/uc_map7.gif)

Thordek tries to smash it. Bam, bam, bam! The others comment on his
obvious dwarvish-ness. "Is he trying to dig a new mine?" says Beck.

After a half hour or so the wooden walls give way to his hammer. He
finds that there is a big contraption here with crossbow bolts. It
points out into the hallway. If it were to fire, it would come out of
a picture frame (through the canvas) and traveled north down the hall.
They note that out in the hallway there is another picture facing
south.

Looking at the pictures more closely, they see that they are "new".
The frames are cheap and the paintings are quick, simple pictures.

Making sure everyone is out of the hallway, Thu'fir attempts to take
the crossbow bolts out and disable the machine. He breaks the
mechanism.

They leave the room. There is another painting out in the hallway that
faces east. Thu'fir takes the painting down, but finds no trap behind
this one.

Thordek carefully looks in the next room.

![](images/uc_map8.gif)

This room looks to have once been some sort of dorm room. The remnants
of a ruined bed frame and rotting desk are piled together with newer
filth. Several Alidian uniforms are piled here, slashed and burned to
rags. There are newer bones (small bones) on top of the pile, and a
few iron ration wrappings.

Thordek examines the bones and determines they are probably from small
game, and not children as they at first feared.

Thordek looks down the hallway carefully. He finds a painting stuck
firmly to the wall. It faces south, opposite the crossbow trap
painting they encountered earlier. After some debate, Beck walks over
and cuts the canvas off, finding a crossbow trap concealed behind it.
They discuss how to disable the trap and whether it needs disabled.
They elect to leave it alone for now, since it shouldn't pose much
threat now that they are aware of it.

Thordek notices a foul odor from the next room. He cautiously opens
the door.

![](images/uc_map9.gif)

This room smells like excrement. The stench was bad BEFORE the door
was opened, and now it is overpowering. Using his dark-vision, Thordek
can see that some of the stones have been pulled loose from the floor
and a latrine hole has been dug here. There is a pile of recently cut
leaves beside the pile. Thordek quickly shuts the door.

They follow the hallway the rest of the way around, turning west and
then going thorough the door at the end, which they already suspect to
be the kitchen. Beck stands outside the room and Enoch enters.

The kitchen was obviously as filthy as the rest of the basement, but
it is clear that someone has taken time to clean this area. The
counter-top looks to have been recently replaced by a fresh piece of
raw untreated wood. The wood still bears bloodstains. There is a stone
fireplace on the east wall. A cooking pot hangs over the cold ashes.

There is a basket of mushrooms here on the counter, and a stale loaf
of bread. A pile of wrappings and strings from iron rations sits in
one corner. Also on the counter are a few other food prep items:
knives, spoons, and such.

There are three doors in here. Enoch tries the door to the south.

This looks like a small food pantry. The shelves are mostly empty,
although there are a few items here: 7 iron rations and a few small
vials of spice. There is also a canister of salt. Enoch takes the
food.

Thordek comes to the kitchen to see for himself. As he walks to the
door, the floor gives way, dropping him and Beck down 20 feet onto
more spikes.

Skeeve levitates them out and Enoch heals them.

At this point they are spent. Everyone is tired and injured a little.
They have been in here only a few hours, although this seems like a
long time for such a small place. They decide to rest before
proceeding. Enoch and Thordek take the table from the dining room and
lay it over the hole so the others may use it as a bridge instead of
jumping. They retreat to the front door. Beck protests that they ought
to sleep outside of the door they smashed in. The hole is a bit
difficult to climb through, and Beck believes it would be better if a
foe had to emerge from the hole to reach them. Also, he didn't want
everyone to have to struggle through the gap if they needed to escape.

The others ignore him and they bed down in the hallway. Eomer keeps
watch.

As they rest, Thordek and Enoch ponder the trap doors. Why did they go
off when they did? At first they suspect that a certain weight is
required to trigger them, but that doesn't seem to match with events.
At last Thordek realizes that the trap doors are activated the *third*
time someone puts his weight on them.

> This happened during an out-of character discussion we had while the
> other players were taking a break. They were getting frustrated by
> the seemingly random trap doors and I think they suspected I was
> just messing with them. I dropped a few hints by going over the
> events and they figured it out.

### 5th of Last Summer, 1501dy

Four hours after the party began their rest, Eomer rouses the them
with a yell, "Hey, I heard something!"

Before they can act, another centipede is on them. They leap to their feet and engage it. This time the fight goes more smoothly and the thing dies without inflicting much harm.

Skeeve has recovered his magic, but Enoch has not. They elect to move
on at this point anyway. They head down the hallway and find the trap
door has been reset, and is now closed again. Not wanting to set it
off again, they jump over the solid ground. Thordek mis-jumps and
lands on the trap area. This doesn't set it off. A few other party
members make the jump, and then Beck fails. The trap springs, the door
opens, and he falls.

They are confused by this. Wasn't this the second time it was touched?
Thodek points out that the centipede would have been the first thing
to cross it, making Beck the third.

They levitate him up and Enoch heals him. They lament once again that
they lost their ropes in the shipwreck.

They follow the hallway around until they are on the north side,
beside the trap door. They go into another room which is not a filthy
mess like the others. The door is left open a bit.

![](images/uc_map10.gif)

A crude bed frame is here, built from newly cut, untreated lumber. The
mattress looks like two blankets, sewn together and stuffed full.
There is a lantern on the floor by the bed.

They go to the next room. Thordek goes first and a trap door over the
entrance to this room drops a pile of stone blocks on him. He is
pummeled.

Eomer, sick of waiting outside, decides to join the party. Beck goes
outside, since this place seems too crowded for six people.

> Pat joined the game at this point. Up until this point in the
> session, Eomer has been an NPC.

![](images/uc_map11.gif)

This room is empty, save for a small wooden chest in the northwest
corner. Thordek walks over to it. The brash Dwarf attempts to open the
chest. Fine powder explodes from the chest, covering everything in the
room. Thordek manages to hold his breath, thus saving him from
breathing in any of the foul grey dust. He dashes from the room
looking like a floured dumpling.

Eomer rebukes him for being so reckless.

They wait twenty minutes or so for the dust to settle out of the air
in the room so that it will be safe to enter. Thordek goes back in and
searches the chest.

He finds a book, some gold, and a bleached human skull which is being
used as a bowl to hold some strange powder.

They open the next door. It is a simple room with a new wooden bed and
a small (unlit) lamp. The bed is poorly built but looks used. The
blankets are not filthy, rotting rags at any rate.

![](images/uc_map12.gif)

They move on to the final door. This is a large door facing east.
Before attempting to unlock it, they decide to deal with the trap to
the north, since it is pointing right at them and probably tied to the
door in some way.

Thordek wants to smash it, but Eomer has him back off so he can try to
disable it. He fails and sets it off. He tells Thordek to smash the
trap. Thordek walks over and whacks into the center of the mechanism
with his hammer. Bam! Four arrows shoot out over Eomer's head and into
the opposite wall. Thordek tries again and breaks the mechanism.

Eomer now moves onto the door. He tries to pick the lock but manages
to fail again. It is jammed.

Skeeve tells everyone to stand back, and then uses flaming sphere to
burn out the door. The door is engulfed in flames. The aged, thick
wood gives off a thick acrid smoke as it burns. The chamber is filled
with smoke and they retreat to the entrance for a while until the
smoke dissipates. The group is now concerned that if the children are
inside they may have asphyxiated.

They return to the door inside. The door frame and the lock are still
there but the wood inside the frame is burnt away. Thordek is chosen
to go in because he is smallest. He peaks in. He sees no one but sees
another set of doors. This is a small vestibule. This area looks
well-traveled. There is a series of switches on the north wall. Skeeve
and Thordek flip a few switches out of curiosity. Eomer is irritated,
but says nothing.

![](images/uc_map13.gif)

They enter the next room. This well-lit room was once the lower
meeting hall and has now been converted into a sacrificial chamber.
There are three stone slabs on the floor, tilted towards the middle of
the room, two with children lying upon them. Grooves have been carved
in the stone floor, leading into a drain in the center of the room, in
which a large bronze cup has been placed. As they move towards the
children they hear a voice from the front of the room, "Leave the
children be! You can't help them now. Go back to the town."

![](images/uc_map14.gif)

At the front of the room is a table with jars and evil books and other
nasty stuff. There is also a large spell-book.

The children seem to be under a spell of dreamless sleep. Eomer moves
closer to the children.

"Leave them be, none of you have the power to help them now," the
voice says as Eomer leans closer to see if they yet live. He can feel
no pulse. He places his mirror in front of the mouth of the boy, and
confirms that he is breathing very slightly. The children look deathly
pale.

"I am prepared to do what none of you would against the Alidians. It
is time that we return to our former glory", states the voice.

"Murdering children will do that?", asks Thu'fir. The others continue
to look for the source of the voice.

"It's time that we go back to our roots. We've abandoned the ways of
magic and that's how we lost the war," the voice persists, moving
around the front of the room accompanied by footsteps.

"Go back! You want to take these children back to their parents? Take
them back, so they can become slaves or killed by the Alidians? Their
death here will be quick, painless, and nothing like the horrors they
would suffer at the hands of the Alidians. If you want to help win
this war, go and bring me one last child. "

Eomer figures out pretty much where the wizard is. He nonchalantly
chats to the wizard, wanders over to the workbench, and starts tossing
and knocking over the stuff on the table. Eomer pulls the leg out from
the table and knocks it all over. The wizard appears near Eomer and
Enoch suddenly can't move. Enoch held, Thordek trying to figure out
what is wrong with him, starts shaking him trying to get him to wake
up.

The battle with the wizard begins. The wizard casts magic missile at
the them. Eomer and Skeeve fight him. Thu'fir picks up one of the kids
and runs from the room with him. Skeeve has been seriously wounded by
the magic missles, but summons his strength and casts lightning on the
wizard. The wizard is thrown back, badly injured. He responds by
hitting Skeeve with an acid attack. The acid splashes all over him,
and he passes out.

While this is going on, Thordek dashes into a side room, looking for
something he might throw at the wizard.

![](images/uc_map15.gif)

A quick glance around the room reveals this to be a workshop of some
sort. He grabs a hammer, and heads out of the room. Eomer attempts to
grab the mage but slides right off. Thordek sees that Skeeve is down,
drops the hammer, and tries to pick up both the kid and Skeeve. He
can't, so he just takes Skeeve. He realizes that Skeeve has acid
burning him and throws off the acid-soaked cloak. Thu'fir continues to
try to save the children. The wizard yells as they take the kids. He
looks and sees that the battle is against him. He casts another spell
and vanishes. Thordek screams for Beck to come help. Eomer uses Endo's
staff to swing in the area that he heard the wizard's footsteps (who
is now invisible) and hits, bringing forth many yells of pain and
frustration from the location of the wizard. Thu'fir blows his horn
and affects both Eomer and the wizard. They are stunned.

Thordek takes Skeeve out of the room and sets him carefully in the
rubbish room. Skeeve stabilizes. Thu'fir drops the kid gently outside
of the room and pulls the doors shut, hopefully trapping with wizard
inside with the party, and away from the kids. Thordek stays with
Skeeve, trying to heal him. The others listen for the invisible
wizard, trying to keep track of him. The wizard kicks at Eomer when he
tries to grapple him and loses his invisibility. He slips away and
shuts himself in the little workshop.

Eomer begins chatting at him through the door. Beck comes in yelling,
"What the heck is going on in here?"

Finally Thu'fir kicks the door in and slays the Wizard with his
massive blade.

> This was the most confusing battle I've ever seen. The party was
> caught off balance and didn't really know what to do. Pat (Eomer)
> was the only player to have faced a wizard before. Making things
> worse was the fact that they entered the battle injured and low on
> magic. Enoch had no healing power left, and Skeeve was nearly spent
> as well. Since they didn't know how to fight a wizard, they didn't
> have any sort of plan. As it ended up, their wizard and Rogue faced
> the enemy wizard while the fighters ran off? What a mess.
>
> If you think this is confusing to read, you should have tried to
> follow it in person. They couldn't form any sort of strategy and
> stick with it. Save the kids? Kill the bad guy? Escape? They sort of
> tried to do all three at once.
>
> The result was that a very ordinary battle turned out to be almost
> too tough for them, and Skeeve was very neary killed.

Thordek looks around. He searches some of the rooms they haven't
checked. One room is piled high with old rotting furniture. Many old
pews have been shoved in here, along with other broken furniture.

![](images/uc_map16.gif)

The other room (where the wizard died) is a makeshift workshop. There
are many bits of cut wood lying around, along with a layer of sawdust.
A crude workbench is built here, which holds some very basic tools:
Hammer, nails, vice, and a few different saws. An incomplete chair is
on the bench.

On the floor near the overturned table they find a chalice of
purification. This strange cup will purify any water placed into it
after 10 minutes. Thu'fir claims this prize.

Out in the main hall, they rest. As soon as he has the power, Enoch
heals Skeeve.

Once rested, they take an inventory of the items recovered. Several
Alidian rank insignia are on the table in the main hall, stripped of
their silver and gold trim. The silver & gold are in a separate pile,
along with bits removed from jewelery and teeth. Thordek takes these
items to sell and divide the proceeds later.

Skeeve finds a mage's guild certificate of membership made out to
"Conjurer Vormoth", good until 1505dy. Skeeve takes this. Being a
self-taught wizard, he has never heard of the guild, but figures that
being able to pass himslelf off as a member may come in handy.

Thu'fir finds the wizards staff and gives it to Skeeve. Amongst the
other things until Skeeve can take a look at everything. Everyone
regroups in the main room, bringing the kids in as well, except
Thordek who has been checking all the rooms they had missed, gathering
up all the things they find.

Thordek searches the workshop and finds a secret room that grants
access to the second (northern) crossbow bolt device / trap.

![](images/uc_map17.gif)

Also in this room is a small wooden box with 800g worth of small gems,
500g, 2 potions of End Dreamless Sleep, and 1 cloak of absorb fire
damage.

They decide when they leave they will burn the wizard in his lair.
They fight about how to go about it. They eventually just leave him to
rot in his workshop.

Everyone rests and wake up around 5 am. Enoch sets about healing
everyone, and they decide to return to town.
